ABSTRACT 
The number of cities offering bikeshare has increased rapidly, from just a handful in thelate 1990s to over 800 currently. This paper provides a review of recent bikeshare literature. Several themes have begun to emerge from studies examining bikeshare. Convenience is the major motivator for bikeshare use. Financial savings has been found to motivate those on a low income and the distance one lives from a docking station is an important predictor for bikeshare membership. In a range of countries, it has been found that just under 50% of bikeshare members use the system less than once a month. Men use bikeshare more than women, but the imbalance is not as dramatic as private bike riding (at least in low cycling countries). Commuting is the most common trip purpose for annual members. Users are less likely than private cyclists to wear helmets, but in countries with mandatory helmet legislation, usage levels have suffered. Greater research is required to quantify the impacts of bikeshare, in terms of mode choice, emissions, congestion and health.

 Review of the Literature
This review of the English language bikeshare literature encompasses recent research from North America, Asia, Europe and Australia. The emphasis is on papers published since 2013, as earlier papers of relevance are included in a synthesis of bikeshare literature published by this journal (Fishman, Washington, & Haworth, 2013). Relevant papers were collected via a scan of Scopus and Google Scholar databases, using the search terms ‘Bicycle sharing’, ‘Bikeshare’,‘Public bicycle’ and ‘Public bike’, conducted between May and October 2014. As the following section shows, bikeshare activity is strongest in China, but there is a relative paucity of bikeshare research in Asia and this review reflects this imbalance.This paper reviews research across a range of bikeshare topics, including its documented history and growth, usage patterns, user preferences and demographics. Research examining barriers to bikeshare are also reviewed, as well as the little research that has taken placing assessing the impacts of bikeshare

History and Recent Growth
In 1965 Witte Fietsen (White Bikes) was launched in Amsterdam (Davis, 2014).This programme consisted of white painted bicycles on the street, free for people to use. The total absence of security mechanisms led to theft and vandalism, and a rapid demise of Witte Fietsen (DeMaio, 2009). Bikeshare, as a concept, experienced little growth after the failure of the White Bike programme,until technological advancements emerged designed to reduce the threat of vandalism and theft.

Generations of Bikeshare
Some researchers have categorised the evolution of bikeshare systems into four ‘generations’ (Parkes, Marsden, Shaheen, & Cohen, 2013). The White Bike programme described above is known as a first-generation bikeshare ‘system’, characterised by no payment or security functions. Second-generation programmes involved a coin deposit system (similar to trolleys at a supermarket or airport). The first large-scale second-generation programme launched in Copenhagen in 1995, but the anonymity exposed the system to theft (DeMaio, 2009). The problems experienced by these first two generations of bikeshare led to the development of third-generation systems, which are characterised by dedicated docking stations (in which bicycles are picked up and returned), as well as automated credit card payment and other technologies to allow the tracking of the bicycles (Shaheen, Cohen, & Martin, 2013)

User Preferences
The motivations and preferences for using bikeshare is an area of interest to researchers, policy-makers as well as BSP operators. As many BSPs require those signing up for a monthly or annual membership to provide an email address, operators have been able to gauge the views of members with relative ease, via emailed online surveys. This section provides a review of literature regarding the results of these activities.

Trip purpose
The most common trip purpose for bikeshare appears to be somewhat dependent on the type of user. For instance, a survey of Capital Bikeshare users in Washington, D.C. which reveals 43% of long-term members last trip was work related, whereas this drops to 2% for short-term users (Buck et al., 2013). Similarly, in London, 52% of respondents of an annual member survey report that their last trip was commuting to/from work, with no other trip purpose accounting for more than 10% (Transport for London, 2014).

 Future Directions
Bikeshare has rapidly emerged as a transport option in an increasing number of cities and as this trend continues, in parallel with technological advancement, a number of future directions appear likely. This section briefly highlights some possible directions for bikeshare in the future as well as emerging research priorities.

E-bikes and Bikeshare
The growth of bikeshare noted earlier has coincided with a similarly rapid growth in e-bike performance, affordability and usage. In recent years a number of cities have launched BSPs that offer electric assistance, known as pedelecs2 (e-bikeshare). These cities include the European capitals of Copenhagen (n ¼ 250, with 1860 planned by mid-2015) (Mulligan, 2014, GoBike Numbers: Personal communication) and Madrid with 1560 bicycles (BiciMAD, 2014), as well as a handful of small Italian cities (Meddin, E-bikes and bikeshare

Future Research Priorities

A number of critical bikeshare research priorities are evident from this review. The need to develop more efficient methods of fleet rebalancing presents researchers with a complex analytical challenge. The data captured by modern bikeshare systems have already started to offer researchers a platform to embark on this challenge. This work is still in its embryonic stages and needs to better utilise the principles of behavioural economics, to incentivise users to rebalance, lowering the need for fleet rebalancing by operators.

Conclusions
Few predicted bikeshare’s rapid rise. The research community has been quick to examine the spectrum of issues associated with bikeshare, including user preferences and demographics, usage rates and geospatial visualisations, safety, redistribution options and technological innovation. The key themes emerging from this review of recent literature are threefold. First, bikeshare users have demographic characteristics that differ from the general population. Users are more likely to be White (in the USA and London at least), male, have higher average incomes and education and more likely to live and work in the inner city, close to or within the BSP catchment area. Second, the literature consistently finds that convenience is the major factor motivating bikeshare users to sign up and corroborates with the concept of perceived usefulness found by other researchers (e.g. Wolf & Seebauer, 2014 in their examination of e-bike ownership). This finding can be used by those evaluating existing or planning new BSPs; ensuring the value proposition provided by bikeshare is competitive with other transport options can enhance ridership. Third, bikeshare’s performance in replacing motor vehicle trips has been less than most expected and future efforts to transfer trips previously done by car to bikeshare will help underpin the potential benefits of bikeshare. Given the speed with which bikeshare literature has developed over the last two years, not every paper and topic has been covered in this review. Several important topics have been omitted and these include bikeshare and public transport integration, different models of provision (e.g. advertising/sponsorship vs. taxpayer funded) as well as big data analysis and geospatial visualisations

References
Ahmed, F., Rose, G., & Jacob, C. (2010). Impact of weather on commuter cyclist behaviour and implications for climate change adaptation. Paper presented at the Australasian Transport Research Forum, Canberra.
Alta Bike Share. (2011). Melbourne Bike Share survey. Melbourne: Author.
Alta Planning + Design. (2012). King County bike share business plan. Prepared for the bike share partnership Seattle. Retrieved from http://pugetsoundbikeshare.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/07/
KCBS_Business_Plan_FINAL.pdf
Bachand-Marleau, J., Lee, B. H. Y., & El-Geneidy, A. M. (2012). Better understanding of factors influencing likelihood of using shared bicycle systems and frequency of use. Transportation Research Record:
Journal of the Transportation Research Board, 2314, 66–71. doi:10.3141/2314–09
Basch, C. H., Ethan, D., Rajan, S., Samayoa-Kozlowsky, S., & Basch, C. E. (2013). Helmet use among users of the Citi bike bicycle-sharing program: A pilot study in New York City. Journal of Community
Health, 39(3), 503–507. doi:10.1007/s10900-013-9785-7